Cluster Transport Encryption Documentation (#3031)
mattermost/docs: source/install/transport-encryption/config-database.rst

=============================================
Configuring Database Transport Encryption
=============================================

Mattermost is able to encrypt the traffic between the database and the application

> using TLS. This guide describes the set up steps for a single, separate MySQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using TLS. This guide describes the setup steps for a single, separate MySQL
```

server.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Header formatting should be fixed.

- Operational Mattermost server or cluster
- Operational MySQL server
- Confirmed connectivity between Mattermost and MySQL server
- Authentication credentials for Mattermost user on MySQL server

Example Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In this scenario there is one Mattermost application server and one MySQL server,
both running Ubuntu 18.04, with the following IPs:

- **transport-encryption-mattermost1:** 10.10.250.146
- **transport-encryption-mysql1:** 10.10.250.148

Configuring MySQL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As a first step, connect to both servers with a sudo or root user.

Execute the following command to prepare the server for SSL connections:

``sudo mysql_ssl_rsa_setup --uid=mysql``

This generates self-signed certificates in ``/var/lib/mysql/`` that the MySQL
server uses to encrypt the connection. If you would like to use certificates
from your company CA, please follow the MySQL documentation for configuration steps.

> **Optionally**, it can be enforced that all connections must be made via a local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Optionally, it can be enforced that all connections must be made via a local
```

     Main PID: 8382 (mysqld)
        Tasks: 27 (limit: 2361)
       CGroup: /system.slice/mysql.service
               └─8382 /usr/sbin/mysqld --daemonize --pid-file=/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid

    Oct 18 16:41:25 transport-encryption-mysql1 systemd[1]: Stopped MySQL Community Server.
    Oct 18 16:41:25 transport-encryption-mysql1 systemd[1]: Starting MySQL Community Server...
    Oct 18 16:41:25 transport-encryption-mysql1 systemd[1]: Started MySQL Community Server.

Configuring Mattermost
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On the Mattermost server, open the file ``config.json`` and look for the ``DataSource``
value in the ``SqlSettings`` section. It should look similar to this:

``"DataSource": "mmuser:sad09zusaopdhsad123@tcp(10.10.250.148:3306)/mattermost?charset=utf8mb4,utf8\u0026readTimeout=30s\u0026writeTimeout=30s",``

At the end of the line, we can configure that TLS must be turned on with the ``tls`` flag
which supports the following values:

- true (Require TLS + a trusted certificate)
- false
- skip-verify (Require TLS + accept self-signed)
- preferred (Try TLS, fallback to unencrypted)

> In our case we need to use ``skip-verify`` since we use a self-signed certificate,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case we need to use ``skip-verify`` since we use a self-signed certificate.
```

> the configuration setting will now look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration setting will now look like this:
```

=============================================
Configuring Database Transport Encryption
=============================================

Mattermost is able to encrypt the traffic between the database and the application

> using TLS. This guide will walk you through the set up steps for a single, separate MySQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using TLS. This guide describes the set up steps for a single, separate MySQL
```

server.

> **Prerequisites:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> - Mattermost server or cluster operational

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Operational Mattermost server or cluster
```

> - MySQL server operational

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Operational MySQL server 
```

> - Connectivity between Mattermost and MySQL server confirmed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Confirmed connectivity between Mattermost and MySQL server
```

- Authentication credentials for Mattermost user on MySQL server

Example Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In this scenario there is 1 Mattermost application server and one MySQL server,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this scenario there is one Mattermost application server and one MySQL server,
```

both running Ubuntu 18.04, with the following IPs:

- **transport-encryption-mattermost1:** 10.10.250.146
- **transport-encryption-mysql1:** 10.10.250.148

> Preparations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Preparations
```

I would remove this sub-section and move the instructions to the next sub-section or simply have it as an opening line for the MySQL and Mattermost sub-sections (i.e., start that section with "Connect to the server as sudo/root user").

Author: Sure, that sounds good to me. Let me fix that!

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Connect to both servers with a sudo or root user

> MySQL Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring MySQL
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> On the MySQL server, execute the following command to prepare the server for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Execute the following command to prepare the server for
```
Removed the first bit because it's in the MySQL section and seems redundant. 3/5.

SSL connections:

``sudo mysql_ssl_rsa_setup --uid=mysql``

> This will generate self-signed certificates in ``/var/lib/mysql/`` that the MySQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This generates self-signed certificates in ``/var/lib/mysql/`` that the MySQL
```

> server will use to encrypt the connection. If you would like to use certificates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
server uses to encrypt the connection. If you would like to use certificates
```

> from your company CA, please follow the MySQL documentation for configuration steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from your company CA, please follow the MySQL documentation for configuration steps.
```
Do we have a link to that documentation and is there a need to provide any additional guidance for this in terms of adding the certificate using this option?

Author: Since it depends on the version they are using, we sadly won't be able to provide a deep-link for them here.

Reviewer 2: Got it, that makes sense. :)

**Optionally**, it can be enforced that all connections must be made via a local

> socket connection or TLS, to do so, open ``/etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
socket connection or TLS. To do this, open ``/etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf``
```

and append the following line to the file:

``require_secure_transport = ON``

> Any connection to the MySQL server now must be made with secure transport enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any connection to the MySQL server must now be made with secure transport enabled.
```

Last but not least, restart the server and confirm it is up and running:

  .. code-block:: none

    root@transport-encryption-mysql1:~# systemctl restart mysql
    root@transport-encryption-mysql1:~# systemctl status mysql
    ● mysql.service - MySQL Community Server
       Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/mysql.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
       Active: active (running) since Fri 2019-10-18 16:41:25 UTC; 2s ago
      Process: 8380 ExecStart=/usr/sbin/mysqld --daemonize --pid-file=/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
      Process: 8360 ExecStartPre=/usr/share/mysql/mysql-systemd-start pre (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
     Main PID: 8382 (mysqld)
        Tasks: 27 (limit: 2361)
       CGroup: /system.slice/mysql.service
               └─8382 /usr/sbin/mysqld --daemonize --pid-file=/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid

    Oct 18 16:41:25 transport-encryption-mysql1 systemd[1]: Stopped MySQL Community Server.
    Oct 18 16:41:25 transport-encryption-mysql1 systemd[1]: Starting MySQL Community Server...
    Oct 18 16:41:25 transport-encryption-mysql1 systemd[1]: Started MySQL Community Server.

> Mattermost Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring Mattermost
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On the Mattermost server, open the file ``config.json`` and look for the ``DataSource``
value in the ``SqlSettings`` section. It should look similar to this:

``"DataSource": "mmuser:sad09zusaopdhsad123@tcp(10.10.250.148:3306)/mattermost?charset=utf8mb4,utf8\u0026readTimeout=30s\u0026writeTimeout=30s",``

At the end of the line, we can configure that TLS must be turned on with the ``tls`` flag
which supports the following values:

- true (Require TLS + a trusted certificate)
- false
- skip-verify (Require TLS + accept self-signed)
- preferred (Try TLS, fallback to unencrypted)

In our case we need to use ``skip-verify`` since we use a self-signed certificate,
the configuration setting will now look like this:

``"DataSource": "mmuser:sad09zusaopdhsad123@tcp(10.10.250.148:3306)/mattermost?charset=utf8mb4,utf8\u0026readTimeout=30s\u0026writeTimeout=30s&tls=skip-verify",``

If you are running Mattermost in a cluster, be sure to update the value on each node
of the cluster. If you are using configuration in the database, be sure to update the

> systemd unit file as well to enable TLS for the configuration store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``systemd`` unit file as well to enable TLS for the configuration store.
```

> Afterwards, restart the Mattermost server and ensure the system is operational:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once complete, restart the Mattermost server and ensure the system is operational:
```
